#summary How to checkout the code repository.
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Commit Permissions =

The repository is read-only to everybody, for commit access please send an email to `uqs`.

You need to use a special token as password, not your Google or Gmail password. Go to your Profile page, then click Settings where you can (re-)generate a googlecode.com password token.

= How to Check Out =
== Subversion ==

{{{
$ svn checkout https://avalonsailing.googlecode.com/svn/trunk avalonsailing --username <you>@google.com
}}}
Upon your first commit, it will ask for the password for `<you>(@gmail.com)`, this will fail. Then it asks for your username (enter `<you>@google.com`) and your password-token. Voilà.

== Mercurial ==

For the mercurial--subversion bridge to work, you have to install the Python bindings for subversion and a special mercurial module.

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install python-subversion
$ hg clone http://bitbucket.org/durin42/hgsubversion/
}}}

Then put the following in your `~/.hgrc`:
{{{
[extensions]
rebase =
transplant =
hgsubversion = ~/hgsubversion/hgsubversion
}}}

Now you're ready to clone the svn repo:
{{{
$ hg clone svn+https://avalonsailing.googlecode.com/svn avalonsailing
}}}

Use `hg pull` to fetch the latest updates, try not to commit to the default branch as mercurial will not allow you to easily re-write this history for pushing into svn (you should only push the final/complete commit, not all the fixups after code review).

See [http://mercurial.selenic.com/wiki/MqTutorial] for mutable changesets. 

Easier to use is the histedit extension at [https://bitbucket.org/durin42/histedit/src] see [http://mercurial.selenic.com/wiki/HisteditExtension HisteditExtension] on how to use it.

{{{
$ hg pull #do this while on the default branch
$ hg branch myfeature
$ hg add;hg commit; etc. pp.
# upload patch to Rietveld, once review is finished:
$ hg histedit -o  # or use -r and give exact revisions, fold all commits into one
$ hg up -C default && hg pull
$ hg rebase -s myfeature -d default
$ hg out # double check everything
$ hg push
}}}

After rebasing your work onto the default branch, use `hg out` to check what would be send upstream. Then run `hg push` for the actual svn commit.

== Git ==

Get the git-svn bridge module, then clone our svn repo:
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install git-svn
$ git svn clone --stdlayout https://avalonsailing.googlecode.com/svn avalonsailing
}}}

This will fetch into the remote branch `trunk` and you'll end up with a local `master` branch, where you should commit your first patches. Before submitting them to svn do `git rebase -i trunk master` to get your local commits into shape for the offical repo. Then run `git svn dcommit -n` to see what would be done, drop the `-n` for the real commit.

= Review Process =

Register an account at [http://codereview.appspot.com/] and download [http://codereview.appspot.com/static/upload.py upload.py], put it in your `$PATH` and make it exectuable.

== Subversion ==

Create our patch as you would usually do, but don't commit yet. Use `upload.py -r <list-of-reviewers> --cc=avalonsailing@googlegroups.com` to send this patchset to Rietveld and the listed reviewers. After you have included their comments, use upload again to send further patches, but include `-i <issue-number>` so it does not generate a new issue.

Finally `svn ci` with a commit message template as given below.

== Mercurial ==

CAVEAT: mostly untested

Clone the repository or create a named branch with your commits, use `upload.py -r <list-of-reviewers> --cc=avalonsailing@googlegroups.com --rev=default:branch` or the direct revision numbers of your patch that you'd like to upload to Rietveld. After you have included the review comments, use upload again to send further patches, but include `-i <issue-number>` so it does not generate a new issue.

Finally `hg push` with a commit message template as given below.

== Git ==

Clone the repository or create a named branch with your commits, use `upload.py -r <list-of-reviewers> --cc=avalonsailing@googlegroups.com --rev=trunk:master` or the direct revision numbers of your patch that you'd like to upload to Rietveld. After you have included the review comments, use upload again to send further patches, but include `-i <issue-number>` so it does not generate a new issue.

Finally `git svn dcommit` with a commit message template as given below.

= Commit Message Template =

Try to use something like the following as a commit message format. Sadly, we cannot enforce this on the subversion side of code.google.com.

----
{{{
component: Short 1-line description of what changed

Long explanation of *why* things were changed, etc.

R=<list of reviewers>
I=<code review issue numbers>
B=<bug numbers> (this line is optional)
}}}
----